Hii, Everyone.
So now let's look at the implementation of finding subsets using recursion.
So first of all, we're going to take input some string.
And then for that string what we are going to do.
We are going to call this method find subsets that will have a single output array that is shared across
all the function calls.
And we will try to fill that array and we'll try to print the output every time we hit the base case.
Okay.
So what we're going to do, we are going to say we are going to have base case and we are going to have
a recursive case.
In the base case, what you can think of is if input of i is NULL, that means you have reached till the end
of the string.
Let say you have ABC and NULL, let's say this is your input.
So if your input of i is actually NULL, then that means your work is done and in the output.
You have already filled some value and your j is already pointing to the right place.
We are going to fill the value and you're going to fill this and you're going to print this.
Okay, so this is what we are going to do in the output and this is what we have in the input.
So for a NULL input, we don't need to make any further recursive calls.
So if input[i] is equal to null, then we can say cout output
But before printing output, you should also set output of j equal to null in order to avoid garbage
getting printed and.
we can say return, that's it
Otherwise.
In the recursive case, what we can do, we can say, let us do two things.
Let us include the ith letter or let us exclude the ith letter from input.
These are the two options.
Okay.
So if you want to include A, then how you will do it you will say.
Output of j should be equal to input of I.
That's it.
And you make a recursive call on the remaining string.
So if you include A this is the remaining string and i would go to i+1, j would go to j plus
one so you can say find subsets.
Input output i + 1 and j + 1, if you want to exclude the ith letter
Okay.
Then what you should do.
You should say that.
Okay.
I don't want I don't care about what is presented at the ith.
index I will simpliy find subsets starting from the index i + 1  and I will not update j, so
This call will actually overwrite what was written at the jth index and in this particular line number
15.
Okay.
So this is actually going to do the overwriting okay if you you're not sure if you want to see
how we can do it.
You can also write output[j] = '\0' so instead of A getting overwritten or B getting overwritten
you first overwrite A with null then null with c or you can do A with C that's not going
to matter.
a lot, this step is optional.
But I'm just telling you that since we have not moved.
j so whatever was the output in the previous state of the array, that will be getting overwritten
because in the next call you would be overwriting at the jth location.
Okay, because we are not changing j.
So I think that's the complete code.
Now we can test our code and we can call the method, find subsets, okay?
And we can give input output.
So in the beginning I is zero and J is also zero.
Okay, so let us try to run our code.
Let us try to run our code here.
And let me show you the input and output.
So if I give ABC.
Then you will see the output is abc, ab, ac, a, bc, b and c
And finally there is a NULL output as well which is not visible.
So maybe we can check if.
Output of zero.
Is just null.
Then we can cout NULL just to make sure that this is visible like this.
Okay.
This is output.
So we are getting a null at the last index, you can see.
Now, let me draw the recursion tree once again to explain how this code is going to work.
In the beginning, we have an output at array which is NULL.
We have input string, which is ABC.
So i is here.
J is Here we say.
Okay, let's make two calls in the first call.
we say output of j is equal to, input of i so it copies A here and the next call will happen later on.
But we are not copying anything.
But this A will be a part of this.
This A will go here, but j would be here.
Okay.
So just assuming that this is not there, okay.
j would be here.
In this case, j would be here.
Okay.
And again, you make two calls.
You say ok either include B or don't include B.
So if you include B, it would be AB.
If you don't include B, it would be A, if you include B would be B.
If you don't include, it would be NULL.
And if you include C, it would be ABC.
If you don't include it would be AB similarly AC and A, similarly BC and.
B and C and NULL.
Finally, we say ok input.
of is going to be null.
So you are going to make another call
You.
say ok let me put ABC\0 and print it let me put AB\0
and print it let me put AC\0 and print it A\0 print it BC\0, B\0, C\0.
And finally, this is.
This is nothing but NULL.
Okay, so if you look carefully, the output order is exactly the same as this one.
ABC, AB, AC, A, BC, B, C and NULL
And that means this is how quickly you can actually draw a recursion tree and verify.
So when we're drawing quickly, we're assuming that these call are happening in parallel, but actually
they are not.
We are going in a left to right order.
So first we are going like this.
And then like this.
Then like this.
And finally will terminate at this particular point.
Okay.
If you finally print the output array in the main what you will get, you are actually going to get the
output for the array, which is actually NULL NULL NULL.
So the entire output array would be actually null in the main.
So you can verify by printing an output here.
Now that's all for this lecture.
And in the next lecture I will show you how you can actually print this output maybe in a sorted order
and that.
We will see in the next video.